# PathFactoryAutomationTest
Automation test framework covering all the test case for login page and forgot password link.

## Test approach

The aim of this framework is to cover main functionalities such as : Already registered user, Forgot password and also create an account. All possible scripts for positive and negative tests are done.

I created this framework with Java, Selenium and TestNG, Maven and structured in a way that no data is left in the application. 

I organized the features in initializing the driver at "base" package, the pages definitions in a repository named "page", the drivers are found in a repository named "resources" and "utils" repository consits of excel spreadsheets to read the test data and also contains test listener(TestNG) to capture pass,fail and skip status and also captures the screenshot and adds it as an execution report in project structure. 

Also, for debug purposes, I included a log feature for each step (saved in "logfile.log"). The test results are automatically generated by TestNG and can be found at "test-output" folder in HTML format. The data at "testdata" package is recorded in an Excel spreadsheet. At last, all the test cases are found in "testcases" package.

## Concepts Included

* Parallel test runs
* Page Object pattern
* Commonly used test utility classes
* Jenkins
* Selenium Webdriver
* Used Log4j for logging purposes
* TestNG Listeners
* Data driven
* Grid

## Libraries and Frameworks
Version for some of these can be found in the POM file.

* Selenium - Web automation
* Appium - Mobile automation
* Maven - Build and package management
* TestNG - Test execution and Reporting
* Apache POI - Data driven
* Selenium Grid
* Appium

## Requirements

In order to utilise this project you need to have the following installed locally:

* MacOS
* Java 1.8
* Eclipse - IDE
* git
* Maven 
* Selenium
* TestNG
* Appium
* Log4j
* Apache POI
* Chrome and Chromedriver 
* Firefox and geckodriver 


## Usage

The project is broken into separate modules for Login, Sign up and Forgot password page.

To run all modules, navigate to `PathFactory` directory and:

* Run "testng.xml" As "TestNG Suite".
* Run pom.xml using maven 

`mvn clean install`
